Source: SEC EDGAR - Apple Inc. Form 10-K, fiscal year ended 2025-09-27, filed 2025-10-31
Accession No. 0000320193-25-000079
URL: https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/320193/000032019325000079/aapl-20250927.htm
Excerpt: Part I, Item 1A - Risk Factors (Macroeconomic and Industry Risks, first portion)

Item 1A. Risk Factors

The following summarizes factors that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. The Company may not be able to accurately predict, control or mitigate these risks.

Macroeconomic and Industry Risks

The Company's operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions and adverse economic conditions can materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.

The Company has international operations with sales outside the U.S. representing a majority of the Company's total net sales. In addition, the Company's global supply chain is large and complex and a majority of the Company's supplier facilities, including manufacturing and assembly sites, are located outside the U.S. As a result, the Company's operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions.

Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including slow growth or recession, high unemployment, inflation, tighter credit, higher interest rates, and currency fluctuations, can adversely impact consumer confidence and spending and materially adversely affect demand for the Company's products and services. In addition, consumer confidence and spending can be materially adversely affected in response to changes in fiscal and monetary policy, financial market volatility, declines in income or asset values, and other economic factors.

Adverse economic conditions can also lead to increased credit and collectibility risk on the Company's trade receivables; the failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions; limitations on the Company's ability to issue new debt; reduced liquidity; and declines in the fair values of the Company's financial instruments. These and other impacts can materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price.

The Company's business can be impacted by political events, trade and other international disputes, geopolitical tensions, conflict, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues, industrial accidents and other business interruptions.

Restrictions on international trade, such as tariffs and other controls on imports or exports of goods, technology or data, can materially adversely affect the Company's business and supply chain. Beginning in the second quarter of 2025, new tariffs were announced on imports to the U.S., including additional tariffs on imports from China, India, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam and the European Union, among others. In response, several countries have imposed, or threatened to impose, reciprocal tariffs on imports from the U.S. and other retaliatory measures. The ultimate impact remains uncertain.

Global markets for the Company's products and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change, and the Company may be unable to compete effectively in these markets.

The Company's products and services are offered in highly competitive global markets characterized by aggressive price competition, downward pressure on gross margins, continual improvement in product performance, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers and businesses. The Company has a minority market share in the global smartphone, personal computer, tablet and wearables markets.

[End of excerpt. Full Item 1A continues in the source document.]
